# STORY STRUCTUREThe most simplistic way to describe the structure of a story is SITUATION, COMPLICATION, and RESOLUTION. From mythic adventures to recollections shared around the dinner table, all stories follow this pattern. (RELATABLE AND LIKABLE HERO, ENCOUNTERS ROADBLOCKS, EMERGES TRANSFORMED)Presentations have the potential to hold an audience’s interest just like a good movie. You might be thinking that it takes years to write a successful screenplay, and you have a real job to do. But isn’t part of your “real job” to communicate ideas well, help people understand objectives, and persuade them to change? Building your presentations with some of the attributes from myths and movies will help your ideas resonate with others.Great stories introduce you to a hero to whom you can relate. The hero is usually a likeable sort who has an acute desire or goal that is threatened in some way. As the story unfolds and trials are met with triumph, you cheer for the hero until the story is resolved and the hero is transformed. As author Robert McKee explains, “Something must be at stake that convinces the audience that a great deal will be lost if the hero doesn’t obtain his goal.”3 If nothing is at risk, then it’s not interesting.One of the reasons presentations are dull is because there are no identifiable story patterns. In the next few pages, you’ll review story models actively used in Hollywood that are fundamental to a good screenplay. These forms work! They are not formulas or rigid sets of rules—they address structure and character transformation, yet also leave room for flexibility and creativity. After you review the Hollywood story forms, you’ll be introduced to the presentation form. It’s a similar form, but one that’s tailored to presentations. Applying these methods will help craft your message and unlock the story potential in your presentations.